## Advanced automated DeFi trading strategy

Uniswap V3 concentrated liquidity positions allow users to provide liquidity within a target range, increasing capital efficiency and flexibile structuring of liquidity positions. If the current market price is outside the specified range then users can enter single asset liquidity positions, meaning that strategies can now be developed with consideration for impermanent loss becoming a feature of the strategy itself.

Volmex.finance is a protocol for tokenised volatility, enabling VIX-like indices for crypto assets by allowing users to mint implied volatility/inverse volatility tokens (e.g. ETHV/iETHV). These tokens always combine to be equal to the proporitional stablecoin collateral required to mint and in v1 must be redeemed in equal amounts; however, their respective share of the underlying fluctuates with volatility. Volatility tokens can therefore be used to hedge crypto market volatility and/or take advantage of arbitrage opportunities, particularly those which might arise cross-chain (lower fees, accessible via fast bridging solutions such as deBridge).

Tokenised volatility offers an opportunity to accumulate the underlying asset, specifically by creation of an increased stablecoin position through purposeful impermanent loss which effectively acts as a limit sell order. A carefully created concentrated ETHV liquidity position would result in liquidation into USDC during volatile ETH market downturns as traders swap USDC for ETHV. Assuming the position is fully utilised by traders purchasing ETHV, the resulting position would then be completely made up of USDC and could be pulled from LP to buy the dip on ETH. For the case of a volatile increase in ETH, the USDC could be used to purchase additional iETHV for use in a similar strategy as volatility regresses to the mean.

One explaination as to who is buying ETHV near its peak could be derivative strategy traders who can redeem it for more than the current price because the actual underlying options are trading at a higher IV. This leaves open other avenues to explore concerning derivatives strategies, since volmex.finance indices factor in eight options meeting certain criteria sourced from Deribit. The respective data is run through an inverted Black-Scholes formula to generate the current index value as a mean of the IVs which aims to measure the 30-day implied volatility of the underlying asset.

Backtesting historical market data based on the implied volatility during previous dips would likely be necessary to determine a suitable range in which to price ETHV expected for future buying opportunities. Note that whilst LP rewards generated from swap fees will remain low until volatility is high and the position is used to trade against, fees generated by 1% pools in times of high market volatility can be quite significant.

Another factor to consider is that high market volatility invariably leads to a spike in gas price as borrowers rush to add collateral and/or exit positions to avoid liquidation. We can therefore expect to pay a significant premium when exiting the liquidity position and swapping USDC to ETH if this strategy is deployed to mainnet Ethereum, decreasing potential returns. Having said that, Olier Network offers a gas option to hedge fluctuations in the underlying EIP-1559 BASEFEE transaction cost parameter from which the option derives its value as demand for the storage and computation on Ethereum increases. In addition to more complex strategies involving lending LP rewards to other DeFi protocols, this tokenised option could present another opportunity to craft a well-hedged and composable strategy.

Finally, note that smart contracts are not able to initiate their own functions at arbitrary times or under arbitrary conditions, meaning that state change will only occur when a transaction is initiated by another account (such as user, oracle, or contract). Automation might be achieved by way of integration with the Chainlink Keeper Network which provides a highly reliable and trust-minimised solution to performing upkeep, such that the fulfillment of a condition (ETHV position liquidated to USDC above a certain threshold, so remove LP) is detected off-chain and triggered by an incentivised independent Keeper node.
